Please remember the following things:

1) You are your job.
2) You are not going to do research. To know the reasons go out there and view the reasons in your Google Drive.
3) You are going to be a top software engineer. There are countless very smart people(with huge research potential) who are top software engineers. Examples include Greg Price, Tony Hsieh, Adam D Angelo, Craig Silverstien, Shubham Mittal, Navneet Loiwal, Prasanna etc.
4) Concentrate only on your work. You are going to lead a target oriented life. Hence you should concentrate only on your work, targets and getting things done.
5) You are also really thrilled by awesome development challenges and cool design and algorithmic challenges as well. So please work hard and keep on doing what you must do. Don't go back to where you were. This is also the primary reason why I will NOT DO ANY THEORY PROJECT. :-)

And remember two more very important things:

1) Humans are resilient. Interests change!!(Remember your physics -> mathematics -> computer science theory -> programming/applied algorithms transition)
2) You cannot afford to waste time thinking these things. You have to be strong and accomplish your targets!! 
3) Everytime you think about research you find hundred of reasons why you should not do it. Remember that where there is a will there is a way, where there is none there are excuses.
4) You have to stick to the plan and excecute it perfectly. Otherwise you will not accomplish what you really came for. 
5) The trajectory itself(if you had wanted to do research) should have been completely different.

Remember the plan: Like countless very smart IOI type people(remember that IOI is much more research oriented): Shubham Mittal, Navneet Loiwal, Greg Price, Tao's youngest brother, Prasanna, Adam D Angelo, Tony Hsieh, Craig Silverstein. There are of course thousands of such people in finance and a lot in industry as well. I was primarily just interested in maths and physics. Like Mittal, Loiwal and Price. 

Everyone who does very well in IOI is typically research oriented.

You yourself were very problem solving + competitions oriented.

And frankly tell me: How many times did you actually go out there and do research due to interest. Do you actually want to do research in the time you waste?! NO... You just want to waste time!! 

You HAVE TO MEDITATE AND FOLLOW THE STUDY BREAK RULE!! 

And who knows, I might be the kind of guy who has speed rather than depth. So I might actually be perfect for development, management and entrepreneurship.
