What you really need to do?

Lets face it, the only feasible options that you have now are Rocket Fuel and Amazon. Maybe Walmart Labs will call, but who knows. 

This is what you really need to do. Forget everything. Lets face it, you are nothing great. Give the best you personally can. Also, you cleared the coding round!! Often the hardest questions are asked in the coding round. You would not want to lose out on perfectly good opportunities just because you are not confident enough. Keep your mind in control. Medidate if required. Be strong. Just think about what position you are in and what you can do. I am pretty sure that nobody is cursing you. You have frankly done no harm to anyone and if curses really work then once again its not in your control. Pray to God if that makes it better. Pray every night.

Most of the questions in Palantir and Two Sigma will have the 'exact' solvable difficulty. That is, they have the difficulty of problems that can be feasibly solved. Now all you need to do is try your level best. Also remember that you enjoy problem solving and you want to be a good software engineer.

Sometimes, I really wonder why I did not work much harder during the vacations. I could strictly have solved many more hard questions during my vacations. Anyways, whats done is done and just do not think about anything that you have no control over and try your best to do the things that you can control.

Lessons learnt:

1) Work hard and practice both algorithms and programming.
2) Speak clearly and dont be too excited.
3) You are not entitled to the job. You have to work hard for it. Be humble.
4) Be calm and confident.
5) Mishaps can happen!! But learn from it!! Next time onwards whenever you have an interview and some time make sure that you practice a few 'company' oriented questions just before the interview. Nothing much. 
6) BE VERY THOROUGH IN RECURSION. SOLVE THOSE OLD AMAZON QUESTIONS FROM GEEK FOR GEEKS. SOMEHOW I GOT STUCK IN A SIMPLE RECURSION PROBLEM AND MY RECURSION CONCEPTS WERE NOT COMPLETELY CLEAR. 
7) For Palantir interviews solve normal problems. Only for their onsite will you require more specialized knowldge hopefully. And lets face it, most of their problems are medium/hard LeetCode level atleast in the telephonic rounds.

Primarily, you cannot lose your confidence. Its extremely important that you dont. There are people who face battles to death without being nervous and with discipline. Also sleep, meditate and excercise daily for the time being.

And ONE LAST THING!! Concentrate extremely hard on improving your level. This is really important. I am sure that you find that in most cases you always get the initial idea of how to solve a problem due to your structured thought process. But once you get that you are often unable to convert those ideas into realities. That is mostly because your thought process is slow and not agile. Also, you are lazy with calculations.
 
Now, lets try my best for Two Sigma and Palantir. The trick is to solve DP problems, greedy problems, data structures problems, graph problems and design problems thoroughly. You also have very strong algorithmic concepts. Increase your speed(mostly practice) as well as your ability to solve hard problems. Both are really important and essential to be a good TopCoder. And frankly there are people who have both and hence it is certainly not impossible.

And frankly, remember the most important thing in the world: YOU ACTUALLY LOVE SOLVING PROBLEMS!! 

You are better than other people in bits and pieces. It has to turn into concrete results!! And you have to do it very very fast and efficiently.

There are two more things that are true... 1) You have not practiced as much as you would like. There were times when you have hardly even solved many problems and you wasted a lot of time thinking craps like whether you wanted to do software engineering or not. 2) You could have done a LOT MORE! 

Also, you have to completely stop feeling tensed and give your best on what you are currently doing. Otherwise, you will almost surely screw up! :-)

Learn for the sake of learning! Things will happen. :-) Do not distract your mind. Just keep on doing the necessary things.


Give things your best try and keep on thinking and be agile!! Keep on working hard. Believe me it will pay off. :-)

VERDICT: You are not in any way a fast thinker when it comes to coding and I dont even know how to change that!! Just think fast and keep on thinking continuously!! 
