Why computational biology?

1) Impact.
2) Funding.
3) Patro is a cool teacher.
4) Only one year of work required.
5) Not theoretical. Very algorithmic programming, data structures and efficient system design oriented. 
6) Helping people is certainly a better goal than making cool games!! OR finding whether someone is HOT or NOT!! :D 
7) Of course it does not have the beauty of theory or the competitiveness of finance. But you know reasons why you cannot do that. There are atleast 20 reasons why you cannot do that. 

8) Now that you have chosen the field and the guide please do it properly. Do as much constructive research as you can. In span of one year with a job search!! :P

9) It is unique, with a lot of scope for really really interesting work and it requires good algorithmic, mathematics and programming skills.(Guliamme Marcais was infact)

10) Also, for the first time in your life you will be doing some real research. Come to think of it, is it not a little to late to do real research.

11) There are some really interesting problems in this domain. It is a new field. And I am quite sure it lacks the smartest minds(though there are undoubtedly some really smart minds out there). But there are no dearth of interesting algorithms, programming and statistical problems that can be solved in computational biology!! :-)

Also remember that as an engineer, you actually specialize in getting things done and creating things that have a lot of value! :-)

At this point of time, computational biology problems have a lot of value and there are chances of huge grants. As well as from a purely scietific point of view Comp Bio has a lot of impact.

Also, strong mathematicians, programmers and statisticians have consistently worked on fields like Comp Bio. Also remember that it is only a year long thing. Also, Patro himself has shifted from discrete algorithms to statistical ones. So has Skiena.

Go into the problem... Learn machine learning properly... Learn more statistical aspects properly.... Code up the algorithms... And kudos!! 

Just go deeper into the problem, understand it and try to solve it rather than being so judgemental. Lets face it, it is entirely possible for someone to be interested in multiple domains of research. And you are good in data structures, system design as well as more pure theory algorithms too!! 

Rezaul might have been a good option. But now the choice has been made. I still think that rather than sticking in your comfort zone and doing theory/data structures, you will be far better off by doing something that is a combination of algorithms, statistics, machine learning and pure programming/engineering. Of course you can always go to theory group meetings and keep on doing lots of algorithmic programming to improve your core algorithmic skills.(and programming skills)

I think the pre-requisite is strong algorithmic and programming skills(which you have). Other then that its mostly about understanding statistics, and going deeper into the field without being scared. All researchers have varied interests. And yeah, you could have done something under Rezaul, but frankly speaking even though it would have been interesting it would have lacked any real impact.(Also, no coding prospects). Now that you have taken the decision, go forward with it. You will anyways be able to do only limited amounts of work. So just do it, be an engineer and solve the problem you are asked to solve and get out. Lets face it. Your research career is completely and undoubtedly over at this point of time. :-) It would be great thus, if you concentrate more on your coding skills and engineering skills. That is exactly why you came here. 
