1) Tell about yourself?

A: My name is Ayush Sengupta. I passed out of NIT Calicut(a premiere institute in India) 1.5 years back. After that I worked in Oracle for almost a year. I really enjoy programming a lot. And I am really passionate about algorithms. My areas of interests are algorithms and theory. And I am also interested in machine learning and AI. I consider myself as a generalist rather than a specialist, and I believe being a generalist helps when you are an engineer. 

2) Why do you want to join Zappos?

A: I first heard about Zappos when I read Tony Hsieh's book delivering happiness. I remember that in that book he emphasized a lot on following your passion rather than following money. Over time I have come to realize the importance of this statement. I mean, following your passion, without any doubt yields better results and in general keeps you happier. He also mentions the importance of work culture. I believe that the Zappos family will probably have a terrific work culture. Also, Zappos has been consistently voted as one of the best places to work in. I mean, you guys, must be doing something right!  

And of course, Zappos serves thousands of customers and I am sure that a company that operates on this scale is bound to have a bunch of cool engineering challenges. 

3) Work at Oracle?

A: I worked in Oracle for 1.5 years. 

I worked on developing Service Management Engines for Cloudlogic. Service management engines are important part of Cloudlogic. It interacts with the Orchestration Engines and provides various services like Javalite, GlassFish, MySQL etc based on user requirements. My work mainly involved JAVA, J2EE etc. Some amount of Python. Even though I learned a lot about software engineering at Oracle, I felt that I was not learning enough and I did not have the freedom and flexibility that I strived for. Also I wanted to learn more and do some more projects. Thus, I joined grad school. 

4) Areas of Interest.

A: Mainly algorithms and programming. Machine learning and AI as well.  

5) Most challenging project.

A: My most challenging project was probably the work that I did for my Data Science project last semester. We worked on commodity markets price prediction. I was the maths and programming guy of our team(which was a multicultural team). The problem was really challenging because we worked on something that was entirely new for all of us, i.e. time series analysis. It also involved a significant amount of statistics and machine learning. But still we really went deep into the topic, read 10s of papers as a part of our literature survey. Then we incorporated and implemented some really cool models that had a good accuracy. All in all, I really enjoyed the project. And it was really challenging because of the vastness of the field, because we did not have a well defined solution, and because price predictions is in itself a relatively hard problem!! 
