Even though you are a great coder, the reason why you are not getting into the companies are:

1) You are getting calls from companies that are quite good.
2) You are in some small way or the other screwing up your interview!
3) Some of the companies dont just want to take.
4) Some amount of bad luck.

I cant believe it, if you cannot face such simple situations how will you start a company and be an entrepreneur. And you have to keep on persisting. That is the only key to success. And listen to your parents, excercise and meditate.


Lets look at it one by one:

a) Facebook: Interviewer was not good. Gave repetatitve questions and judged based on speed.

b) LinkedIn: Screwed up. Don't really know why. Probably you need to practice a lot more so that you never screw up in easy question. Also, be ready to properly use your brains in interviews. Thats why practice harder problems. And also look at the company interview questions.

c) Palantir: No fault of yours as far as I think.(Dont think about it too much)

d) Two Sigma: You screwed up the second interview because of your panic. Also, you didnt know a very basic thing about maps. Also, I have a strong feeling that atleast the last two interviewers were really very smart. And they were probably great 'coders'. I would suggest you practice more engineering stuff and try again later.

e) Twitter: No comments. They gave the control of the interview to a very inexperienced person. And they dont really seem serious on taking interns. 

Things that I should do: 1) More practice. Be really very very good in all aspects of competitive programming. Improve actually, as far as possible!! 

2) Be cool and keep on trying. 
3) Do not lose hope. Probably you are learning what it feels like to be an entrepreneur.
4) You have to try your best to reach the top. 
5) Concentrate on being an expert in coding, algorithms and engineering. That is what really matters. Be as good as you can be. 
6) As you have chosen a life of speed rather than research, persistance and depth, I would suggest that you try your best to be as fast and efficient as possible. Though do not compromise your depth. Atleast to some extent. I mean you should have the ability to solve quite hard problems, Div 2 D or Div 2 1000. Keep on practicing unless you have that level. Once you reach that level, I am quite sure that no one can stop you. No company will be able to reject you. You must have the level that you can solve relatively hard problems even on a bad day!! 
 


