It is important to do competitive programming, or for that matter implementing and OS etc etc. This is primarily because irrespective of whether you end up doing 'generalistic' programming or 'specialistic' programming you would need to have the ability to concentrate, work and get hands on for extended periods of time. Something that TopCoder, as well as building big products fast will teach you. Of course there is the added advantage that TopCoder problems are hard, mathematical and quite interesting! 

Of course, once you try hard enough and deep dive into it, you will once again get so engrossed in it that you will almost entirely forget other things! :P :P

Personally, I feel you should do structured startups like Quora, Asana etc. Smart startups. Of course there are HCI aspects to these things because they are consumer products. On the other hand, you can also try entreprise products. But just chose one and give your full concentration to that. You are a guy who has lots of curiosity and interest. Learn how to combine them well. And sometimes you have just got to chose one thing. 

Oh, and by the way: NO YOU WILL NOT BE INTERESTED IN DESIGNING, IF YOU THINK ABOUT IT. I MEAN, ITS ONE THING APPRECIATING DESIGN AND ART. ITS ANOTHER THING CREATING IT. CREATING IT IS OFTEN FRUSTRATING AND EXTREMELY NITTY GRITTY. AND YOU DO NOT REALLY HAVE A LOT OF SENSE WHEN IT COMES TO UI.

I like ICPC and TopCoder problems more than CodeForces problems because CodeForces is more kiddish and IOIish and school-ish! 

The truth is that, if you cannot concentrate enough to solve these problems one after the other, you will never be good enough(and have the required amount of concentration to get things done). Even Tony Hsieh etc were awesome at programming! :P

Also, just because you enjoy aesthetics, does not mean that you are going to be good at CREATING it. You are really good at creating backend and hence you should concentrate completely on that. You do not have the aesthetic sense nor the understanding. 

Also, it teaches you to completely concentrate and thing the one thing that is important. Even your 'aesthetics' or 'backend' tasks would involve completing one thing at a time and you would want to get hands on and keep on coding and trying(a thing essential in TopCoder problems), wasting minimum time: A skill that is extremely important to achieve success in life. 

Now lets not make this any more difficult for you. Lets just work as hard as you can and get into the best places. Unless you can do this you wont be able to write any type of codes. Believe me. Even chess is mainly practice and knowledge, which then combines with innovation at a later stage. 

You have to minimize the severe problems that you seem to have with concentrating hard and efficiently for elongated periods of time. Use competitive programming as a way to get over that. No matter what you are trying to create, at some stage it will just be about coding up and creating the individual components without caring about the other aspects. And at that point it primarily comes down to concentration and effort. Irrespective of whether you continuously able to view the bigger picture or not. 

Do it because you thoroughly enjoy building and creating stuffs. Do not do it for any other reason. Do you really think those Chinese guys and Shiv Verma etc deserve Amazon?! :P

You just keep on doing your work and the things you really enjoy! If you want to get rid of the context switch and the intertia just do not stop! 

Write long codes fast, you will be automatially be able to write short codes fast. Though, do practice it before the interviews YO! You do not really want to be the weak link of your Facebook team. YOU HAVE GOT TO LEARN HOW TO CONCENTRATE ON ONLY ONE THING AND GET THAT THING DONE! JUST ONE THING AND ONE THING ONLY. FOR ELONGATED PERIODS OF TIME.

Now you have got to strictly start doing one thing. Start meditating and start building up your concentration. If you cannot concentrate on solving problems or your work, or whatever, you will never be able to succeed and get a lot of things done. Do TopCoder because it will teach you to think and to be persistent. Do your job oriented work with persistence. You have got to learn to be persistent! Even Sreevathsan was able to get more work done than I could! You get my point!! You have got to learn how to remain concentrated on something for a long long long time. Irrespective of how interesting it is or it is not! 

These sort of skills escalate. As I said before, you will not always be working for the bigger picture or on problems that 
